# AI Policy for AQUA, Quantum Information Processing, and Quantum Internet

## Revision history

This is a draft for discussion. It is not official policy.

## Principles

First, this policy recognizes that AI tools can be very helpful. This policy does not forbid the use of AI.

The purpose of schoolwork is twofold. First, schoolwork helps you improve yourself. Second, schoolwork helps teachers understand your strengths and weaknesses, so that they can help guide you and find the right path for you.

However, society cannot function without mutual respect for others. Misrepresenting AI-generated work as your own demonstrates:

* A lack of respect for yourself: you are not allowing yourself to learn effectively.
* A lack of respect for other students: you are making it difficult to understand what students are actually accomplishing, and how they are struggling.
* A lack of respect for your teachers: your teachers want to understand your challenges and help you develop as a person; they do not want to be fed work generated by an AI.

If we wish to make the world a better place for humans, we must cooperate to make sure that AI is not abused to make life worse for humans.

Finally, it is impossible for teachers to police all AI use. We must respect and trust in students to do the right thing.

## Guidelines

These guidelines supplement the ITC [Guideline for Generative AI Usage at Keio University](https://www.itc.keio.ac.jp/en/software_ai_guideline.html).

### Give credit to AI

First, ask yourself: **if, instead of AI, you asked another person to do a task, how would you handle the situation?**

For example, you might ask someone else for help getting started with your research. If someone gave you a list of articles to read, or suggested some changes to something you were writing, you would give them credit.

Likewise, if you asked someone to correct your English, you would give them credit and thank them for the help.

In the same way, **if generative AI assists you with your research, or helps improve your writing, you should give credit to the AI that helped you**. Be specific. State which AI tools you used and how you used them. This not only helps teachers understand how AI is being used by students, but helps everyone learn how they can better use AI tools.

On the other hand, if you asked another person to do your homework for you, or create a presentation for you, this would clearly be an instance of misrepresenting someone else's work as your own: in other words, cheating.

### Take responsibility for AI output

Second, ask yourself: **is the AI trustworthy?**

It is well-known that generative AI often creates output which appears correct, while actually being partly or entirely false.

It is critical that you **understand your tools**. Understand their strengths and weaknesses. Some tasks are more suited to AI use than others. You might want to read [Bert Hubert's article on how he uses AI](https://berthub.eu/articles/posts/an-ai-premortem/), or look for other articles.

Moreover, AI tools may plagiarize: in other words, they may directly copy text or diagrams from other peoples' work without giving the original work credit. Plagiarism is a severe form of academic misconduct.

Ultimately, it is your responsibility to validate the output of AI tools and ensure that information is correct and correctly attributed.

### Don't be afraid of mistakes

Finally, **don't be afraid of mistakes**.

AI can create text and images that look perfect. But it's not you. You will make mistakes. This is OK. You will learn more from your own mistakes than from over-using AI.

Related to this, don't be afraid to ask other people for help, or admit that you don't know something. Also, remember that you don't have to use AI. Using AI is completely optional.

## Examples

### Making a presentation for AQUA

Situation: You are asked to summarize a new academic paper for the weekly AQUA meeting.

#### Best

You read the paper, create slides, and write a script for your presentation. If you re-use diagrams or text from the original paper, you make sure to give credit to the original authors. You use the paper's citations and Google Scholar to find related work.

You ask other students or faculty members to review your work, or if you have questions.

You ask ChatGPT to look over your slides and script, asking for advice.

In your slides, you thank the students and faculty members who gave you advice, and explain how you used ChatGPT.

You are able to answer some of the questions you are asked after the presentation.

#### Good

You read the paper, and use ChatGPT to help translate parts you don't understand into Japanese. You ask ChatGPT for help finding related work.

You want to make the presentation in English. However, you are not confident in your English abilities, so you write the slides and script in Japanese and ask ChatGPT to help you transform them in to English. You read the output several times and make adjustments.

If you re-use diagrams or text from the original paper, you make sure to give credit to the original authors. In your slides, you explain how you used ChatGPT for translation and research tasks.

You are able to answer some of the questions you are asked after the presentation.

#### Unacceptable

You do not read the paper, or you read the paper but do not try to make slides and a script by yourself.

You give the paper to ChatGPT and ask it to generate a script and slides for your presentation.

During your presentation, you read the script.

After the presentation, you have difficulty answering questions.

You do not explain how you used ChatGPT.

#### Explanation

In the "best" and "good" examples, AI's strengths are used: AI might be good at correcting grammar, doing translation work, or acting as a research assistant. AI might help you do better work and improve your skills.

However, in the "unacceptable" example, you are misrepresenting AI's work as your own. Moreover, you are not using AI effectively. Rather than augmenting your abilities, it is replacing you. The "unacceptable" example could be considered academic misconduct in some circumstances.

## Consequences

Students found to violate these guidelines will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Some cases may fall under the [university academic misconduct policies](https://www.students.keio.ac.jp/en/sfc/pmei/class/fraud/).
